Good morning.
John Galunzi.
I just want to kick this session off and
tell you what's going to happen because
it's a little bit of a non-standard
session for us at WDC in a couple of
ways and sort of lay the agenda for you
so you know what to expect and then I'm
going to kick it over to the KPCB folks.
So what we're going to do is kind of like
a feedback forum except the KPCB folks
are going to speak for about 10 minutes,
just kick off,
give you some information about
the iFun and about who they
are and how they can help you.
And then we're going to turn it over
to Q and A and you can get to the
mics and ask questions that might be
appropriate for the whole group to hear,
the whole room to hear.
And then we're going to follow
up immediately after that.
We'll just basically put some
KPCB folks through the room and
you'll be able to meet with them.
You can talk to them individually
and show them what you've got and
talk to them about your specific
proposal or ideas or what have you.
So just to reiterate,
start off with a very quick
presentation about the iFun
and then we'll do some Q and A.
So prepare your questions based on what
you hear and then we'll break out and
you can meet with the folks from KPCB.
So to kick that part off,
let me introduce Matt Murphy who's
a partner with Kleiner
Perkins in managing the iFun.
Matt, do you want to come on up?
Hi, I'm Matt Murphy from Kleiner Perkins,
Kauffman & Byers.
I manage the iFun along with several
of my partners who are here today
who we'll introduce you to later.
First, I want to thank all
of you for being here.
I know that you have a lot of choices.
It's a busy week and we
really appreciate your time.
And we're looking forward to
the conversations we're going to
have later to learn more about
you and what you're working on.
After spending a bit of
time around here this week,
it's clear that $100
million is a good start,
but given all the enthusiasm and
everything we see going on here,
it's probably insufficient.
But it's a starting point.
So, a little bit more about us.
As John was saying,
what we're going to do today is just
a real quick overview of who we are,
kind of some of the big themes that
we think are important in mobile,
how to work with the iFunnd,
and then we'll break.
So, us.
We've been in the business for
over 30 years and we tend to
have found some big opportunities
around a new platform emerging.
So, you go back to the PC era
or the computing era,
beginning of the computing era
around Compaq and some microsystems.
And unfortunately, we missed Apple,
but that's a longer story.
And hopefully, being up here today,
the iFunnd and working with
all of you going forward
will be a bit of redemption.
As the Internet emerged,
companies like Google, Netscape, Amazon,
and we fully believe that in a few years
as we look back on this chart here of
icons of companies we've invested in,
that as this emergence of
the mobile Internet emerged,
we're going to be able to do a lot more.
And hopefully,
as the emergence of the mobile
Internet platform happens,
that companies of equal magnitude will
be built around the mobile Internet.
You can see some quick
statistics on number of IPOs,
number of jobs we've helped create,
revenues, et cetera.
This is our team.
We call it the iTeam.
This is the number of people
within the firm who work at
some level with the iFun.
So we're putting a lot of
people behind the effort.
We think it's really important.
We'll introduce some
of those to you later.
So powerful trends.
Why are we so excited
about the mobile Internet,
about the iPhone, and about the iFun?
If you look at to date,
about 6 million units sold.
And going forward by the end of '09,
who knows what it's going to be.
But with a $199 price point,
with all of you, all the developers,
all of the applications that are coming,
we're clearly about to hit an
inflection point and the curve
could be steeper than that.
So exciting times.
Also, as all of you know,
a terrific development environment
is crucial for getting more
applications onto mobile devices.
And Apple's nailed that one and
that's why we're all here this week.
3G.
Unless you have 3G,
you've got an experience that's
still too slow for some of the
things that we all want to do.
3G is now solved both in the new
iPhone as well as becoming fairly
ubiquitous around the world.
User awareness and early adoption--
the whole ecosystem is buzzing around
new applications that are coming.
A device like the iPhone--
we're seen people do different
things with their mobile devices
than they ever have before.
And we're seeing a strong
early adopter audience.
I'm sure you know some of the statistics,
but about 20% of people access the
mobile internet on regular phones,
90 plus percent on the iPhone.
It's a good platform to be on.
And one of the most broken things
within the mobile ecosystem
historically has been discovery
and a distribution channel.
It's been too hard to get your
applications out to users-- too much
friction working with the carriers,
and a really broken discovery paradigm.
About 70% of people only download
an application within the first
week of getting the phone.
And we all know that this is clearly
going to change with the App Store and
having a good discovery experience.
And finally,
the most exciting thing to us and
the premise of the iFun is that
developers are coming to mobile in
droves that they never were before.
And I think part of that is
all the things we just talked
about and other trends about
what's going on on the iPhone.
And if there's any indication of that,
the fact that this event is sold out,
that all of you are here,
it's an exciting time to be
an entrepreneur in mobile.
So areas of interest...
what are we looking at?
Real-time social networking,
mobile advertising.
I'm not going to read through all these,
but you can kind of see... there's
probably not a lot of surprises here.
These are kind of the big
categories as we see them.
Gaming--we've seen a lot
of different gaming demos,
et cetera,
and it's a terrific device for that.
But I think what we're mainly looking for
is new applications that take advantage
of a mobile experience and think
about all the capabilities within the
iPhone to deliver something that users
haven't had available to them before.
And then the last one is
just totally cool new things.
I think we're going to be surprised,
both in conversations with all of
you and once the App Store launches,
about the kinds of applications
that we see emerge,
the new use cases that we can't really
predict until we see it out there.
So what are some of the big ideas?
We call it augmented reality and
there's an example in our portfolio.
The first iFun company called Whirl.
The company's Pelago and
the product is Whirl.
But there's this notion that
you've always got this always on
personal location aware device.
It knows who you are, where you are,
it can learn your personal profile,
the kinds of things you're interested in.
It's got a quasi social network
in it which is your phone book.
So how do you take all that information
that's always with your device and
interact with the physical world?
Get smarter about the world
going on around you through
the use of this device.
Real time social gaming,
interacting with people
as you play games,
and it could be anything from a
simple poker game to a virtual world
where you're interacting with other
people's characters and so forth.
Mobile identity management is basically
how do you -- you've got all this
information on the mobile Internet.
How do you basically have a
common identity that allows you
to access a lot of information?
Your life stream,
the information you care about in the
moment instead of having to go through 20
different accounts or try and figure out
what information you care about or not.
Micro payments, I think we're going
to see micro payments,
but we're also going to
see virtual currency,
virtual goods, and things like that.
Hyper local discovery,
so now again going back to the
personalization of the device,
the location awareness of the device,
I think we're going to have a huge
opportunity to hyper target people
both in terms of their interests and
as well as in terms of advertising
and promotion and things like that.
And the last two are kind of a catchall,
personalization and location enablement.
Those are going to be things
that are built into many,
many applications.
I think the most important
thing is that the devices
themselves aren't applications.
It's the fact that the device now
has those things and those can
be provided in a lot of different
applications to create new experiences
as well as the accelerometer
which you see in the icon there.
Why the iFund?
Well, as you see in the picture here,
it's all about the hugs.
We give good hugs.
There's been a longstanding relationship
between Kleiner Perkins and Apple.
And the formation of the iFund
was a long time in coming around.
And we launched it with the
launch of the SDK in early March.
And there's some real alignment
around what we were trying to achieve.
Kind of from our standpoint,
capital and company building
expertise from the Apple standpoint.
Having a partner who could
deliver those things.
And for them to deliver their strategic,
technical,
and marketing support to some of
the best and brightest entrepreneurs
and the best and most interesting
companies that we all see.
So there's a lot of kind of,
it fit our mutual goals pretty well.
We believe by being part of the
iFund that we can help you in an
advantaged way to be successful in
the iPhone and iPod Touch ecosystem.
And there's, of course,
collaboration with Apple.
And with other iPhone companies.
And a lot of good press and PR, I think,
around being an iFund company.
So what have we seen so far?
Just some quick statistics on that.
We've had about over 2,000 proposals
received so far and we're through about
90%. So hopefully you have all seen that.
We're sticking to our two-week
turnaround time and we're
engaged with about 100 so far.
And just to put this
number in perspective,
this is about a factor of 20 more
plans than we would have seen in
kind of this three-month period
prior to launching the iFun.
So I think it's clearly been
successful for us and I think
successful for entrepreneurs in
terms of connecting with a venture
firm and a fund that's really bullish
and interested in the mobile area.
Just this is a little bit hard to read.
Well, actually,
I think you can read it pretty well.
But this is a distribution of plans.
About 85% of plans we received
so far are consumer-facing.
That's probably not a surprise.
And the distribution within that
is actually fairly clustered,
somewhere between 4% and 10% if you
look at the different categories,
like social networking
or games or multimedia,
content sharing, things like that.
There wasn't any category
that was over-indexed.
We got a good distribution of plans,
which was encouraging to us
that people have a wide range,
variety of ideas and are
trying to innovate across
a lot of different sectors.
So keys to iPhone success.
I want to talk a little bit about
what's the iPhone looking for as you
approach us and how to think about that.
I mentioned this before,
but think about a new mobile use case.
Don't just kind of replicate something
that was on the web and port it over
and say Amazon worked on the web,
therefore I'm going to
create Amazon for the web.
Amazon can, sorry,
for the mobile internet.
Amazon can create the
Amazon for the mobile internet.
What's going to be different about
a shopping experience or so forth
that's going to tie in some of
the unique aspects of the iPhone
or location and things like that.
Those are the things to think about,
a new behavior and use case.
And that goes to the
second point on the do's,
which is leverage the
iPhone's unique capabilities,
the address book, the accelerometer, GPS.
Deliver a killer user experience.
Really focus on a great user experience.
From the get-go,
keeping something simple,
making the user understand
why they're using it.
That first 20 minutes of the day,
that's a 20-second and then
five-minute experience is
critical for being successful.
And demo a prototype that will stand out.
So far in the iPhone,
I think we see a lot of plans that
are ideas that seem like wouldn't
this be great if somebody built it
and if this worked and users loved it.
Come up with something a little bit
more crisp than that that's a prototype
that shows how you've conceptualized
your ideas and illustrated your
ideas and why that's a big deal.
On the don't side,
probably things that aren't a good fit
for the iPhone are niche applications.
We've seen a lot of narrow applications
like a great new golf app or a surf
report app or things like that.
Those are too narrow, too niche.
It's kind of from going
back to the first slide.
What we're really looking for is
kind of those foundational set of
applications on the mobile Internet just
like we did in the Internet and
the computing wave before that.
Don't underestimate
the importance of team.
I think in other things we often see
one person and maybe doesn't have
the right set of either technical
competence or maybe doesn't have
the right set of skills or maybe
doesn't have the right set of business
competence or business competence to
kind of build the idea they're pursuing.
So think about how to build a really
great team that covers the main aspects
of what would be necessary to deliver
this application and this experience.
And finally, don't submit an early raw
idea that's undifferentiated.
Early and raw is actually
better than undifferentiated.
I think we see a lot of things
where we'll see 50 restaurant
finder applications or something
like that in the iFund.
And so think about what you're
building that somehow is differentiated
and can stand the test of time
relative to other competitors or
people out there in this big world,
mobile world that's
everywhere as we know.
So how are you going to be
different and how's that going
to stand the test of time?
Okay, summarizing here,
three ways to work with the iFun.
First, submit a proposal to the iFun.
You can do that either off of
the Apple developer website.
There's a link to this
page or off our home page,
www.kpcb.com.
You'll find this page.
So go there and there's a
standard form that tells you
how to submit an application.
Next, if you're not thinking
about starting a company,
think about joining an iFun company.
And we're here with
my recruiting partner,
Jordan Ormont,
who we'll introduce you to in a minute.
Here's his email address.
Send him your resume.
There's a lot of companies,
both that we funded and that
we're working on or incubating.
And of course, as you can all imagine,
the biggest shortage is of great people.
So we'd like to see your resumes.
And here's some of the companies
in the portfolio right now.
iFun portfolio,
Pelago with their product Whirl,
and a company called iControl.
And there's some stealth companies
that if you connect with us,
we can introduce you to them.
And finally,
if you're starting an incubation project,
there's some areas that
we're interested in:
mobile advertising, commerce, payments,
and healthcare,
where we've got some active
explorations underway.
And we'd love to hear your ideas or
potentially include you in those.
And you can email to my partner,
Chi-Hua Chen.
All right, so I introduced our I team,
and here are the people
today that are with us,
and maybe it'd be best
if you guys... Actually,
we will come up at the end after the Q&A,
and I can introduce each of you.
But real quick,
Trey Vassallo has spent a good part
of the last 10 years in mobile.
She was a company called Good Technology,
which was a RIM competitor
acquired by Motorola.
Bing Gordon, who just recently joined us,
he was CMO of Creative Arts,
so anything consumer-facing,
entertainment, games, et cetera,
he's your man,
and he's much broader than that as well.
Ellen Pao, deep software experience
background out of Tell Me and BEA.
Chiwa Chen,
great consumer-facing experience,
kind of understands virality,
customer acquisition,
all those kind of things,
longtime Internet,
both entrepreneur and venture capitalist.
And then finally,
I mentioned Jordan Ormont,
who's our recruiting partner.
So they'll come up on
stage after the Q&A,
and then what we'll do after
the Q&A is we'll kind of break,
pick them up into different
places around the room,
and we'll be, we want to discuss your,
see your prototypes, your demos,
and spend up to five minutes with anyone
who's interested to do that today.